# Explosive immunization
Explosive immunization algorithm for network fragmentation, introduced in the article [Pau Clusella, Peter Grassberger, Francisco J. Pérez-Reche, and Antonio Politi Phys. Rev. Lett. **117**, 208301.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.117.208301)

Please, refer to the paper for details of the algorithm.

## Compiling

The codes are in the `Library` folder. Download the Library on your workspace and compile using
```
$ make -C Library
```
Upon success, the executable `exploimmun` will be created in you workspace

## Using the algorithm

To run the code use
```
$ ./exploimmun <m> <network.txt>
```
where
* `m` is a positive integer stating the number of candidates to select at each step of the algorithm. The smaller the `m`, the fastest is the algorithm. However, a too small number might result on a bad performance. For networks with a million nodes, `m=1000` might be a reasonable option.

* `network.txt` is the file where the network is stored. The first line must be just a single number, `N` the number of network nodes. The following lines must contain the list of edges. An edge written as `i j` means that there is a link between node `i` and  `j`. **The proper format of the file is not checked by the code so the user should ensure everything is set appropiately.** A exemplary file is given in the repository as `ER1e5.txt`.

## Outputs generated by the algorithm

All the output files are generated in the workspace

* `output_sigma1.dat` contains the outcome of using the first score as pairs of numbers `q G(q)` where `q` is the fraction of vaccinated nodes, and `G(q)` the relative size of the largest network component.
* `output_sigma2.dat` same, but using the second score.
* `threshold_conditions.dat` contains the list of vaccinated nodes at the approximated percolation threshold (computed as 1/sqrt(N)). A `1` means vaccinated, and a `0` means unvaccinated.

## Algorithm parameters

The only parameter the program requires is `m`. The effective degree cut-off is set to 6. The threshold where the second score is invoked is set to $1/\sqrt{N}$. These two parameters can be easily changed from the source file `Library/exploimmun.c`
